[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: We all
need more energy.
The type that leads to more
love and success and good health
and prosperity
and peace of mind.
I'm not just talking
about physical energy,
I'm talking about that very
special type of subtle energy,
or creation light
that can provide
an endless flow of goodness.
Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
and joining me
is the author of 25
books on energy medicine
and chakras, Cyndi Dale.
She's used her psychic
gifts for the last 25 years
to see into different
realities and provide intuitive
and energy healing
for over 65,000
individuals around the world.
Welcome.
>>CYNDI DALE: Thank you.
>>LISA : That's a lot of people.
>>DALE: It's a lot
of people, yeah!
I don't like to count that high.
>>LISA : I know.
How did you?
>>DALE: It means a lot of
years at the work, too.
>>LISA : Yes.
You have.
You've talked all over
the world and influenced
so many different people.
What motivates you?
What guides you to do this?
>>DALE: You know, I was
really intuitive as a child,
and I, for a long time,
thought that was normal.
I thought everybody saw
angels or spooky stuff,
or could hear what
was in the wind
or feel other people's feelings.
You know, and then it didn't
take very long to figure out
that was really
unusual, but I still
wanted to know what that was.
So really the
answer is curiosity.
You know, what is this?
How do people know things
that other people don't know?
How do I do that?
So I really think
I've been propelled
by curiosity, and probably
a little bit of fate.
Honestly, at every
step of the way
I've had some kind of message
or guidance of somebody
or an inner voice or maybe
a bigger voice saying
you need to do this
now, or why don't you
try this, or go travel to Costa
Rica, or take yourself here.
And I just listened.
So I think our lives
work better if we listen
when we're being ordered
around, especially
if it's from a higher source.
And so I think it's been
kismet and guidance.
>>LISA : At least you know
how to listen, though.
>>DALE: Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I had to learn how,
though, because I'm also
really good at being
stubborn and saying no.
>>LISA : And thinking well,
that's not real, that's not me.
>>DALE: I know.
I know.
>>LISA : Yeah.
>>DALE: Yeah, and
most of my clients,
that's something that
they share, or students.
They're constantly asking,
how do I know it's real?
How do I know if it's
real or if it's fear,
or if it's imagination,
fantasy, or guidance?
And you know I always
tell people look,
I think inside we know.
It's not just about
getting a pretty picture
in the head, or a voice,
or the earth shakes, or--
it's not usually something
major that steers us.
It's a little knowing,
it's an inner voice,
and our body will tell us.
It will be really
clear, this feels good,
this doesn't feel good.
I can trust that
dream, I can't trust
what showed up in that dream.
So we all have the apparatus to
receive but also distinguish.
>>LISA : And also,
what do you do with it?
Last night I was talking with
a friend about a friend who
had passed away,
and we were talking
about this person with
reverence and great memories.
And all a sudden, this
breeze came and then
it blew up the menu
and covered my mouth.
>>DALE: [LAUGH]
>>LISA : And it just sat there.
And we all looked at each
other like what is this?
What is this?
Be quiet?
>>DALE: Right.
>>LISA : Because--
I didn't know what to do!
>>DALE: Don't talk, don't eat.
>>LISA : And then the candle
on the table blew out.
>>DALE: Oh wow.
>>LISA : I know.
So maybe she was just trying
to show she was still around?
Because I don't know what
to do with the information.
>>DALE: Right, right--
>>LISA : Most people don't.
>>DALE: I think a lot of
us don't, and sometimes I
don't know either.
I'll get a dream that my dad
will show up for something
and tell me something, and
I wake up and I'm like well,
what's that all about?
Where do I go next?
You know, it's a very simple
secret: ask a lot of questions.
Honestly!
You know, I always relate
to my inner spirit.
There is a part of
me that's connected,
part of everybody
else is connected.
There's guidance, there's
goodness, so I ask questions.
And the other thing I
do is I know whatever
my guidance is, they're a lot
smarter and more connected
than I am.
So I tell them, get the
message through to me.
Look, I'm Norwegian.
We're not very expansive,
we're not terribly creative.
We're kind of
stubborn, you know.
We only traveled
the world to get
what we wanted, thousands
of hundreds of years ago.
So I'll say make sure
I get the message.
Like, make it really clear.
So it's the old story,
literally if there's
a book I'm supposed to read,
just plop it in front of me.
Just let it fall
off the bookshelf.
If I'm supposed to go do
something, get three people
that day telling me what to do.
Give me three license
plates that all
say something, that is a
marching order, and I'll do it.
>>LISA : That's great.
Ask for obvious signs.
>>DALE: It works.
You know, I have
this dog named Honey
he's a third reincarnation
of a dog named Honey.
They're always male golden
retrievers, and the second one
I had died a few years
ago, and three years
after that, I heard this voice
in my head going, I'm back!
And I'm like, oh no, please no.
He was really wild.
And I was like, please, I
don't want to do a puppy.
And he goes I'm back!
And that very morning,
my son, who loved Honey,
came into my room
he goes, mom, I
was just searching
the internet and I
think I found a dog
we're supposed to get.
I'm like, oh my gosh.
Well, I was so resistant.
I'm like I'm not doing another
puppy, I'm not doing a puppy,
I'm a single mother,
I'm not doing a puppy.
So over the next
three, four days,
Honey was delivered to
my house from Amazon.
I never ordered.
The dog's name on
the site was Tank--
how are you going to think
Honey and Tank are the same?
Everywhere my son and I went,
there were billboards of tanks.
G.I. Joe tanks, toilet
tanks, whatever it was.
The last straw was I was in
therapy with my therapist,
my guide, and I
said, you know, I
know I'm getting
all these signs,
I just don't want
to follow them.
It's a dog free building.
I walked outside of the office.
Guess what, there's a dog
coming at me, nobody around,
with a leash in its mouth.
It's like OK, I'll get Honey.
So we have some flexibility
as human beings.
We get to say get the message
to me, and do it in a way
that I'll really do it.
>>LISA : Can you do that same
thing with manifestation?
>>DALE: Oh my gosh, absolutely.
>>LISA : With what
you want to create?
>>DALE: Oh, absolutely.
I believe that we're
supposed to be able to.
Our birthright is to manifest
what will lead to our purpose.
We're here, everybody
has a purpose.
We're here to learn,
we're here to grow,
we're here to grow love, and we
have a unique way of doing it.
So doesn't it makes
sense it's our birthright
to receive what we need to
do what we're here to do?
>>LISA : Wouldn't
it be nice, though,
if we were just here to
not grow, and just to--
>>DALE: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
OK, I'm with you.
>>LISA : And just to
be at peace and relax?
>>DALE: Yeah, and have joy.
So--
>>LISA : Do we have
to grow all the time?
>>DALE: But I think that part
of our purpose is about joy.
You know, if we're
here to learn,
it's also to learn how to
laugh, how to have fun,
how to be so loving,
how to have joy.
I just think God
giggles all the time
when we take things
too seriously.
>>LISA : Yes.
>>DALE: Right?
>>LISA : Yes, I get
that a lot as well.
>>DALE: So we can
manifest ice cream--
you know, the version that we
like when we're traveling, just
as much as you know a
speaking engagement,
or somebody who's going to
teach us that karmic lesson.
>>LISA : So you do
a lot of traveling--
>>DALE: I do.
>>LISA : --and
this is something--
so you follow the guidance,
and you take groups on these
wonderful excursions.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>LISA : Tell us
what you do, though.
We have some pictures of some of
the places that you've visited.
This one picture here
is in a square cave.
Where are you?
>>DALE: Well, that's down in
Mexico, near Chichen Itza.
But a little known fact is
that behind Chichen Itza
is the real Chichen Itza.
It's a very, very
old ancient complex.
And I wandered back
there one day--
I don't think I was supposed
to, but here's guidance like,
keep walking, keep walking.
And then I led a group down
there as well at a later time.
And so it's really the original
site of the ancient Mayan
teachers and masters, and
I took a group down there
to learn about Kundalini.
I mean, that's the Hindu word.
Nearly every culture
talks about that the body
is equipped with a sort of
divine light, a divine fire
that allows us to access the
spirits, the gods, our higher
self.
And so that's what we were
working with down there.
>>LISA : So first of all, it's
nice that it's still preserved
in an area that's not so
accessible to the public,
and that's only
for private tours.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>LISA : So that
respect the land--
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>LISA : --but when you
get into a place like that,
how do you teach people to
activate that level of fire
within them?
>>DALE: Well, I think everybody
does it a somewhat different
way, so I make sure that
they know their way is
going to be their way.
>>LISA : OK.
>>DALE: I do make sure that
they connect to the ground,
or to the land,
or to the cosmos,
and bring into themselves
whichever subtle elements
their system needs.
Wood, earth, air, fire,
star, whatever it might be.
So they need to make a
connection to the land
or to the place or the
space that they're in.
And let their body first
be filled, so that they're
in a safe way and a safe place.
And then I have them connect
to whatever it is they
call their spirit--
greater spirit,
higher spirit, because it
really is about safety.
Especially when you're
dealing with something
of divine light or
the divine fire,
you don't want to
get set ablaze.
I've had people come
in, 12 years they've
been shaking because they just
bring energy in willy nilly,
and they haven't
really customized it
or allowed themselves to set
themselves up to adapt to it.
And then they just feel it.
They can get to know
it, it can be safe,
you have to feel it in the
body to know it's real.
Then you can get images,
may be messages for it.
So I make sure people are
safe, they're grounded,
and they're connected
to do the work.
>>LISA : And so that they just
experience the energy rather
than bringing this-- because
I've heard that the Kundalini
energy can really flood
the body and kick you out.
>>DALE: Well, it's physical.
I mean, physical
and subtle energies,
we like to distinguish
between them--
they're on the same continuum.
It' just how measurable
versus immeasurable the energy
is we're working with.
And the Kundalini,
the subtle energy--
well, subtle energy is 90
point whatever percent of what
creates reality.
So you bring out a lot
of the invisible energy.
Your physical energy's also
being stirred and ignited,
comparable to what subtle
energies you're bringing it.
So you're going to
get electrical pulses,
you're going to get
biochemical changes,
you're going to get your
sympathetic nervous system
going, and that's a shock.
>>LISA : Yes.
>>DALE: So why do
that to ourselves?
>>LISA : It's a lot.
>>DALE: I mean, come on.
Yeah!
Let's be a little more
peaceful around it.
>>LISA : And gentle on the body,
because it really can blow out
the circuits.
>>DALE: Right, right.
Physical and subtle-- we're
here to be in physical
and transform it
through our own spirit,
through our connections.
But let's be kind to it.
Because we have to--
I don't know about you, but
I show up for work every day.
I can't just have a Kundalini
experience and check out.
>>LISA : Right, right.
And you have to show
up for other people.
And people have jobs,
and they have to show up
for their job, and a boss.
>>DALE: Right.
We need to respect
the every day,
because that's what we're
here to experience, along
with the higher sensitivities.
>>LISA : In the beginning I
talked about this creation
light, talking about
subtle energies.
What is that?
>>DALE: Well, I love
talking about this.
I'm a little geeky with it.
>>LISA : OK.
>>DALE: I believe
that we are living
in two universes at the
same time, or two creations
simultaneously.
And cosmology is starting
to bear this out.
You know, we all
get told that we're
in an expanding universe that
started with the Big Bang.
Everything condensed,
blew up, here we are,
the physical laws of nature
kind of govern it, entropy
is going downhill
and life is hard.
OK, so that's kind of the
fallen universe we're living in.
But scientists are suspecting
that there was a precreation
to that, maybe pre-Big Bang,
maybe before the Big Bang,
and--
>>LISA : Something that
caused the Big Band?
>>DALE: --something that maybe
caused the Big Bang that's
still here with stillness.
There's actually
these standing lights,
or kind of frozen light
in the universe that's
still emanating a charge and
a cosmic background radiation.
So it's almost like we're in
two simultaneously coexisting
universes.
My studies of different
spiritualities, the Torah,
Hinduism, even Christianity, to
be really honest, in Genesis,
would suggest that perhaps there
was some kind of force that
was pre-created, that was here.
That works with spiritual law,
spiritual principles, goodness,
what some scientists would
call scalar waves, which
are science--
like, you know, super
cool waves of energy
that seem to make change.
And then from that, the rest
of the universe was created.
In the beginning was
the void, and there
was a light on the void.
And then everything
came from there.
So I like to call that
creation light, sort
of what we're within.
The heaven that's
here, but we're still
in this continually
moving universe,
where things are hard.
We learn our tough
lessons, but we can employ
what's in the creation light.
We can connect to oneness,
we can connect into goodness.
It's all here.
All the energy
systems, I think, are
speaking to how do you
connect to the oneness
through this sort
of fallen state
and transform what's here.
>>LISA : Have you learned
the same thing from shamans
in your travels?
Do they--
>>DALE: Yes!
>>LISA : All around the world?
>>DALE: This is what they teach.
>>LISA : Same thing?
I was, just a short while ago,
teaching a workshop in Raleigh.
And during the first night,
there were these beautiful
souls leading a sound chamber,
really sort of like an almost
sweat lodge-- because
it was so hot in there--
fire ceremony.
And this message came
through for everybody--
through me, but to everybody--
that was all about creation
and there was goodness
in the beginning.
We brought it in with us, there
are beings who brought it in,
and we need to redo
the world with it.
That's the ancient teaching.
That's the creation
story of the Lakotas.
And really, every
creation story.
It's just can we remember
it, can we align with it,
can we work through
our blocks, our fears?
>>LISA : I wonder if there was
such a separation when there
was all this spiritual
mysticism that we were raised--
or that humanity
was raised to it.
>>DALE: I don't believe so.
>>LISA : But then scientists
came in, and they needed
to materialize it and put
it into a grounded format.
>>DALE: That's right.
>>LISA : And then there
became this separation.
>>DALE: Right.
And science and spirituality
started to split.
I mean, the shamans are
doctors of the soul.
They used medicines,
they used herbs,
but they also talked
to somebody soul.
>>LISA : Yes.
>>DALE: And they
cleared the soul
of what might be in the
way of letting it actualize
>>LISA : And the light body.
>>DALE: It's the light body.
Everything's about
everything's here.
You can use physical
tools, you can
use psychological tools,
you can use spiritual tools,
doesn't really matter.
>>LISA : It's all
the same thing.
>>DALE: It's all the same thing.
>>LISA : That's fascinating.
>>DALE: Yeah.
But why did the Bible say that
people used to live 800 years?
Because they were in connection.
They knew how to
be in connection.
We didn't stop and
start and everything,
we didn't freeze the flow of
what nature had to give us
or what spirit might
have provided us.
So we have to
unblock a lot here.
>>LISA : Undo a lot.
>>DALE: Undo a lot.
>>LISA : Yes.
>>DALE: Remember a lot.
>>LISA : So this picture
here is of you with a shaman,
with one of the
beautiful shamans.
Where were you in this one?
>>DALE: I was in Peru.
I have been to Peru many times
to learn, to work with shamans,
and I have also led some
groups down to Peru.
And for me, when I'm there, it's
more in the Amazonian basin.
The land is alive to me.
I don't know what it is
about my connection to it,
but that particular shaman
grows all the medicinal plants
of Peru on his land.
And I can understand them.
I feel them-- like he tested me.
We went out, and he said,
what does this one do?
And I could tell him, and
I am not an herbalist.
I remember three things
and forget them right away
whenever I study plants.
I'm just not that gal.
>>LISA : Oh really?
You-- so you just intuit it all?
>>DALE: I intuit
it all and I say,
well, this is really good
for cancers of the throat,
and this and that.
He goes well, you're right.
Because I can feel
what the plant is
saying, because
they believe there's
a connection down there.
>>LISA : What are you feeling?
What are you hearing?
>>DALE: You know, it's
sort of like it comes in
through my body.
I feel the energy waves
that they ride on--
and you know, there
actually is research
that plants have a neurology
very similar to ours.
There's the equivalent
of hormones,
processing of light-- veins,
absolutely, everything
is in there.
So it's almost like they send
me information their way.
It comes in my body
and my energy centers
are able to decipher
it or translate it
into words that I can say.
So my system translates it.
>>LISA : What about the insects?
Because they're part
of the plants, right?
>>DALE: Oh, they're very
much a part of the plants,
and they talk too.
Yeah, I think insects are
brilliant, to be honest.
>>LISA : They really
have a huge role.
>>DALE: They run half the world,
if you really want to know.
I mean-- I even-- at one time,
a butterfly talked to me.
This was at my house,
this wasn't in Peru.
But it I was just sitting
there, and it wandered and sat
on my hand, and I said
oh, hi, butterfly--
out loud.
I don't-- obviously also
speaking butterflyese,
and it said I'm not a
butterfly-- you know,
in that way of connecting.
And I said well, what are you?
And in my interpretation
of its messages,
it said oh, I'm a Yakowitz.
We're very important.
And I'm like, it
sounds rather Jewish.
That's sort of cool.
And it was like, no, no,
no, we bring messages.
We bring them to the
buds, we pick them up,
and we know what
everybody's doing,
because we deliver messages.
So I don't think
we know very much
from science what
is really happening
in the natural kingdom.
>>LISA : OK, for those
watching right now that think
you're just absolutely nuts--
>>DALE: I could be!
>>LISA : Let's teach.
Let's teach.
So we saw a bunny the other
day, and we both stopped
and we looked at the
bunny-- everybody does it.
Everyone wants to
talk to the animals.
>>DALE: Right!
>>LISA : Everyone does.
So how can you introduce that?
Because the bunny
was obviously just
stayed there and stared at us.
>>DALE: Right.
>>LISA : Most bunnies
would have left
>>DALE: And it has a
message, and it's not going
to be speaking English, right?
>>LISA : Nope.
>>DALE: All right.
>>LISA : But we don't
want to hurt the bunny!
>>DALE: No!
And you don't want to scare
it, or anything like that.
So the technique that works
for me all the time is I always
affirm my spirit.
That's myself that's
connected, through the creation
light is connected to
everything and everyone.
It just makes me a good--
it puts me in my good
self is what that does.
I affirm the bunny's
spirit, all right,
because it has an immortal self.
Maybe any of the
guidances that are around,
and then whatever
word you want to use--
I always turn the process
over to the greater spirit.
And that's the oneness
that can tell me
what that bunny
needs to communicate,
wants to communicate, et cetera.
So the translating is done
through higher forms than just
me in my head trying to figure
out what the bunny means when
it's twitching its whiskers.
It just-- I don't know.
>>LISA : Right
>>DALE: So I use that
process for everything.
When I'm doing healing
work with people,
client work, when I want to
know what to do during the day.
In the beginning of the morning,
I just say spirit to spirit,
bring me what I need.
And it's not like everything
is going to be metaphysical.
It can just be Cyndi, you
really need to clean your house.
And you'll feel it.
You'll just know,
I've gone so far.
>>LISA : Yes.
>>DALE: But you'll sense
the bunny's message.
With those kind of beings
it's more of a feeling
that you then have
to translate if you
want to put it into words.
>>LISA : Well on a more
global scale, there's--
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>LISA : --so there's a big
problem with these wildfires
in California.
>>DALE: I know.
>>LISA : And because it's so dry
and because there are so many
trees in forest thick areas,
there's a movement to thin
the forests.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>LISA : And it's
a big controversy.
>>DALE: I know.
>>LISA : And apparently this
was done in the Native American
times, when the forest was
so thick when the trees would
ignite they would burn so much
further because they could jump
from tree to tree faster.
>>DALE: Right.
>>LISA : So now
they're talking--
and they're clear cutting.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>LISA : So many of these trees,
and they're devastating forests
that are natural
habitats for animals,
and it's a very
controversial issue.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>LISA : Because we don't
want to burn California,
but we also want to
provide this habitat.
So you're very connected
to the trees, right?
>>DALE: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>LISA : If you were to intuit
the trees in California--
>>DALE: I would say thin,
but do it very particularly,
and get permission first.
Personally, I'd bring a shaman
in to ask what sections,
which trees.
Give them enough time to give
up their soul or their spirit
if they're going
to be thinned out.
Give them the time, that's
how the native worked
with the animals.
They just said,
look, we understand
that we need to take flesh
here to support ourselves.
And they would do
ceremony before
so the animals that were self
selected or spirits selected
would have time to send
their soul wherever
their souls are going to go.
You know, to the other planes.
>>LISA : Or reincarnate,
or whatever.
>>DALE: Right.
Right.
In the East, they
tend to do this more.
Even when they build a hotel,
they bring in a master,
a shaman, an expert
to just say if we're
going to clear this land,
let's prepare the land.
Let's give it time to clean
the living and the ancestors
and the spirit of the trees
before we take this over.
You know, in Iceland they
believe in gnomes and trolls,
and when somebody has a sighting
or an experience with an elf
or a gnome or a troll,
they'll stack stones.
>>LISA : Oh, really?
>>DALE: Yeah, they will.
I mean, it's something
like 47% 57% of all people
there believe in
the Elven kingdom.
And so if there is a
lot of stones in an area
and the highway
department wants to build
a highway through
there, they won't do it.
They just won't do it.
>>LISA : Oh, that's
a good system.
>>DALE: They'll say this
is where the elves live.
And I know we sound kind
of goofy, I do know that.
>>LISA : I'm always
calibrating for that.
>>DALE: But you know, if you
look at the incredible miracles
shamans are often
able to perform--
>>LISA : Right.
>>DALE: --and how often
normal people get dreams,
senses, messages, how many kids
know things that they're not
supposed to know.
>>LISA : Right, there's
a lot of studies there.
>>DALE: How we relate
to our own pets,
and we just know what they need.
>>LISA : Absolutely.
>>DALE: And we can understand
what their barks or their meows
mean.
I mean, come on.
>>LISA : And we can
connect with them.
>>DALE: We're connected.
We're connected.
It's not really so odd.
I don't care, people go
around talking to fairies,
you know, but you
may want to talk
to a guidance that could help
you or your own inner guidance.
>>LISA : Yes, and that's the
best way to do it and to learn.
And so you do.
You take people on
experiences, and you
get to point these things out.
I see those little
rock stacks a lot.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>LISA : They mean different
things to different people,
but what it does symbolize is
someone there had a ritual.
Someone there had a symbol
they wanted to share.
>>DALE: Right.
>>LISA : And it connects
us in a different way.
>>DALE: Exactly, and
where to find our own.
Whether that be the
religion we grew up in
and we honor the rituals
there, because isn't
a religion about a
connection to a higher being?
And depending on the religion,
to spirits, to saints,
to whatever.
We honor where we grew up and
what we were raised to believe,
and we don't need to dishonor
any other ways or paths either.
Or we find our own depending
on our unique personality
as we go through life.
My youngest son uses
the word the universe.
My oldest son is like I
don't know what's there, mom.
He's just very
practical, but he's
dialed in like
nobody's business.
He's so dialed in!
He knows what people are
thinking and feeling,
he's a wordsmith, so do
I care if he has a way?
He is his way.
And he's a good person, and
he's a good soul That's a way.
>>LISA : And he's a
teenager or a young man,
and he's working through
the world with this level
of intuition.
>>DALE: He's making a
difference in the world.
>>LISA : So this is great.
So now, you took your son
to this beautiful place
in Morocco.
>>DALE: I did.
>>LISA : The camels,
that's beautiful.
>>DALE: That particular
son is about 30--
isn't that great?
I can't believe I
have a 30-year-old.
Soon I'll have a 40-year-old.
No, he's 30, his girlfriend
is an amazing human being.
They had been to
Morocco for a wedding
but never got to
the desert, so I
decided to take them as a
gift, kind of post Christmas
gift to the desert.
But I've been to Morocco before.
And that experience
years ago was
one of those sort
of tipsy different,
you know, those unusual
metaphysical experiences.
I was talking to a girlfriend
and we wanted to travel,
and she said well,
just ask your guidance
where we're supposed to go.
And I said Morocco.
I don't even really
know where it was.
I hate to admit that.
But I said Morocco,
that's like in Africa.
We're going to Africa!
So we went there,
and the whole trip
was literally just a
download of guidance
that ended up being different.
But healers we met on the way--
different of the guides we
met, like Berber guides.
People who lived in the
desert, teaching us legends.
>>LISA : So when you
go to the location,
do you seek these people?
>>DALE: I seek these people out.
Well, I sort of find them.
>>LISA : How?
>>DALE: I don't really
know, to be really honest.
Like honestly-- that particular
trip, we just showed up.
We went to Casablanca and
had no plans except we
were going to follow spirit.
And pretty soon we're
hiring a Sudan man
who knew about a rune--
and another knew
about a library,
and another knew how to
get us out to the Sahara.
And that particular
guide knew how
to get us to a Berber
home-like place
in the middle of the desert.
And so it just sort of flowed.
And information comes in
for me, especially when
I'm not at home.
That information's just
the dogs need a walk.
The dogs outweigh everybody.
Like, walk, dinner, that
1:00 in the afternoon.
Dinner!
>>LISA : That's an
interesting point, though.
We do get so crowded--
>>DALE: We do get crowded.
>>LISA : --by our
day to day stuff.
Getting outside of
your environment
was really important.
>>DALE: So a lot of
the guidance was just--
obviously with people who
lived there that came through,
but also different
stories of what
we like to call
Atlantis or Lemuria,
or where do people
come from, off world.
You know, most cultures believe
they came from the stars.
Like I met a group
of Shipibo Indians--
it's a group of
Indians down in Peru.
They make this beautiful cloth.
The design on it is their
path from the stars.
That's the designs.
>>LISA : Oh.
Through history,
that's their design.
>>DALE: Their history.
So the stories I was hearing
from the people in Morocco,
like Berber people or Arabic
people or the Jewish people,
but also through my guidance
really matched up, too.
I didn't do all that when I was
with my son and his girlfriend.
We rode camels, we went
camping, we ate really well,
you know what I mean?
>>LISA : Yes.
Yes.
>>DALE: You can have all
kinds of experiences,
and they're all good.
>>LISA : But spiritual
tourism is a really big thing.
>>DALE: It's huge.
>>LISA : Yeah.
And it's really a great
idea to go to a place
and not just participate
in the touristy--
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>LISA : --attractions,
but really to go and learn
and respect the culture.
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>LISA : And that's kind of
what this is a little about,
is how to do that, to
respect your own culture--
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>LISA : --and then others.
This is a great picture
of you in a cave here,
and where's this?
>>DALE: That's Belize.
I went to Belize the first
time with a guy friend.
And it was another one of
those very not planned trips.
>>LISA : Wow, you
do a lot of these.
>>DALE: Well, I like
doing it that way.
I'm not to bring
a group like that.
That would be a little
crazy, all right.
We ended up out in the
Cayo mountain region.
We were two of the first
people to go into a mountain.
We had to climb up the mountain
and go into the mountain,
and there were these ladders
that the archaeologists had
just put in, because there
was an ancient ceremonial site
in the middle of
the mountain that
was still preserved for
hundreds and hundreds of years.
It was like the spirits
were still there--
of these people.
>>LISA : But when you go into a
place like that you really have
to respect it.
>>DALE: You have
to be honorable.
You can't touch things,
you don't take things,
you know you don't disturb.
You ask if it's even OK for
you to tune into the place,
to communicate with those
who might still be lingering.
You have to get permission.
>>LISA : That's responsible.
>>DALE: It is.
>>LISA : That's good.
>>DALE: So then we
led a group down there
to enable them to have the
same experience as well.
>>LISA : What was it
that you experienced?
>>DALE: You know,
I kept seeing--
I'm very visual, I'm
very clairvoyant,
especially the first time.
I kept seeing the
stories of the people.
I kept seeing them
when they were alive
and how they took care
of their children,
and how they took
care of each other.
It wasn't all great
mystery, it was village.
It was community.
It was care, it was love.
And that became the
theme of the group,
like in what way are we
blocking out in our own lives
and in what way can we create
that amongst ourselves.
And so that theme kind of grew
out of my first experience.
>>LISA : Everything is a lesson
when you go on traveling.
>>DALE: It's a wisdom gathering.
Yeah, you don't even
know what it's really
going to be, I don't
think, till you get there.
>>LISA : Well,
especially when you--
I mean, trust is a big issue.
So if you go to
these places, you
have to use your
intuition whether
or not to trust this guide
to take you somewhere--
>>DALE: That's right.
>>LISA : --and not to take
advantage of you and to be
safe.
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>LISA : Do you ever teach
that and really how to tune
into that?
>>DALE: Oh, absolutely.
I mean, we're in
physical bodies,
and you have to really
trust the teacher.
Like if you meet somebody
in another country
and you want to learn from them.
And so I get a sense
inside of my body.
I stay in touch with
that flow, and I
go this is not the
place for me to be.
This is not the place
for me to bring people,
this is not the
place to do this.
It's a healthy wariness.
>>LISA : What do you
do in that situation?
>>DALE: I ask for guidance.
What do I do, where do
I go, how do I do this--
you know, how do we get away?
Do you confront-- we have to do
this in everyday life, right?
>>LISA : Right,
that's why I'm asking.
>>DALE: Do you confront?
Do you just slip away?
Do you throw a fit?
People like to think
that history repeats,
and so we're programmed.
Every time we're in danger, some
of us yell, some of us hide,
some of us bargain.
That's the limbic system.
But the truth is we're
never in the same situation,
so it's on us to be in the
moment, in a sense of a flow,
and go how do I deal
with this situation?
How am I to be with this?
How do I respond to this?
>>LISA : Yes.
>>DALE: And so that's
part of the practicality
of connecting esoterically.
>>LISA : I love it.
And that's exactly what I
wanted you to talk about,
was how to bring that both in.
You talk a lot about
the chakra system.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>LISA : Do you use a practical
way to go through the chakras
in order to use that protection,
or discover what's going
on about yourself intuitively?
>>DALE: I do, I do.
Well, I know the
chakras really well.
I've written too many
books about the chakras.
I know a lot about the chakras.
So sometimes on
an everyday basis
or when I'm working
with a client,
if something's just not
quite connecting or working,
I'll just say is there a
place I'm supposed to focus,
and I'll be led to
a specific chakra.
Like the security chakra, an
emotional one, or the heart
based one, or
whatever it might be.
>>LISA : OK.
>>DALE: Most of the time,
though, I know that the chakra
system is a system.
It's a ladder, it's
a flow way, and so I
tend to work with
it all at once.
Like I'll ask for energy
to come from the ground
to come all the way through me
and just clear me so that I can
be really focused right now.
Or I'll ask for
energy from above if I
feel like I'm too stuck.
You know what I mean?
I'm being too practical,
or too scared, or too--
you know what I mean,
in the everyday, then
I'll ask for energy
to come from above.
And I just trust.
Because I like to go to
the top to ask for help--
whatever word you use,
God, Allah, Spirit,
I like to go to the top.
>>LISA : Go right to source.
>>DALE: I don't need
to go low level.
Not right now, go to source,
ask for what you need.
And so if I feel like I need the
energy to come in from the top,
I'll just bring that down
through my chakra system.
But you know the chakras
each create an auric layer,
which is around our body.
We have meridians
that flow through us.
So most of us is just a
very complex, subtle body.
We're a subtle anatomy.
>>LISA : Yes, yes, yes.
>>DALE: You don't have to
get caught up in the details.
>>LISA : It happens when
I'm sitting with you.
Our energy fields
are combining--
>>DALE: They're connecting.
>>LISA : Yeah.
>>DALE: Yeah.
Einstein said we're
just oscillating
fields of light and sound.
>>LISA : I believe that, yeah.
>>DALE: Isn't that cool though?
>>LISA : Yes.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>LISA : It's a way to
connect with people,
and to-- the
rapport, or to heal--
>>DALE: Or to heal.
>>LISA : --or to listen.
>>DALE: Or to say no
thank you, because not
everything's for us.
You know, there's
actually some studies
that are saying that you--
there's some recent ones
that say you pass energy back
and forth, we all know that.
But even say if somebody is
eating something healthy,
the energy of the healthy
minerals or vitamins
passed through their
energy field to you.
And I'm like so then
I can eat junk food
and they can eat
the healthy food.
It doesn't quite work that way.
And it can be scary for
people, to think about how
interconnected we are.
Because there really
are things that
aren't good for us, or people
that we don't want their fear.
We don't want their shame.
>>LISA : Their energy, yeah.
>>DALE: So we need to
be wise about this.
It's not just about
being like woo, let
me just be free for all.
We have a responsibility
to be who we are,
which means we don't want
to be who somebody else is.
>>LISA : Right.
And we've got to
find a way to ground
and protect from
that energy as well.
>>DALE: Exactly.
>>LISA : Which we'll
talk about in a second.
But first, I want you
to take a look here
at Cyndi working with somebody.
>>DALE: Now Toni, I'm going
to have you experiment
between the backside
and the front side
of your first chakra, OK?
>>TONI: OK.
>>DALE: OK.
Now I'm going to put my
hand on the backside.
Through here we're supposed
to receive divine energy.
That kind of energy that helps
us know that we are who we are,
that creates our
personal identity.
Because that's really what
the first chakra is about.
It's where we get to
say I am that I am.
All right, so I want
you to just breathe in
through the backside.
All right, just kind of
like how you are right now.
Not really focused too much
on anything that's going on,
and just get a sense of
how you feel down here.
Physically, this chakra's in
charge of our physical health.
So get a sense of
your physical health,
the real raw
emotions of passion,
the beliefs about security,
the spiritual sense that we're
connected to the divine or not.
All right.
So now I'm just going
to focus on allowing
you to receive through the
backside that divine flow.
That support that
says you're here,
and you're supposed to be here.
And tell me how you feel.
>>TONI: Wow.
>>DALE: Isn't that cool?
>>TONI: I can really feel that!
>>DALE: I know.
Now what would it be like
to go through life that way
and feel that connected?
>>TONI: Total awareness.
>>DALE: Awareness,
safety, security.
Now let's try that
with your adrenals.
I'm going in the backside
of your adrenals.
>>TONI: OK.
>>DALE: All right, they
just are what they are.
We all have adrenal
burnout, that's
kind of the modern way
of living, all righty.
So now we're going to send
through that divine flow again,
through the inner wheel
of the first chakra.
So we're focused
on what's supposed
to come through you, through
the inner or spirit wheel,
versus your programming.
All right, so give me a
sense now how you feel?
>>TONI: Oh, grounded.
>>DALE: Grounded.
>>TONI: Yes.
>>DALE: Right, like you're here.
>>TONI: Like I'm here.
>>DALE: OK.
>>TONI: Very much so.
>>DALE: All right.
I want you to think about
one of your life's stresses,
because ultimately it impacts
us in the first chakra.
That's where we do that fight
or flight kind of stuff,
or freeze, all right.
So think about a life stress.
>>TONI: OK.
>>DALE: All right.
Now how do you feel in
your body with that?
>>TONI: Oh-- anxiety.
>>DALE: Yeah.
Kind of edgy, I can
kind of feel it.
All right.
OK, I'm going back to the core
of the back side, first chakra.
We're just throwing
divine flow through again
while you think about
that tough stuff.
OK, what's happening
for you right now?
>>TONI: A real sense of
peace, security, balance.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>TONI: Balance.
>>DALE: Yeah, balance!
That's what we're
trying to achieve
through the first chakra.
And our bodies are
healthier if we're
able to maintain that state.
That's why it's so important
to work with the inner wheel,
from the outside to the in,
work through the backside,
and know what each
of these chakras do.
This is where we achieve
stability and security.
>>LISA : That lady looked like
she had a wonderful healing
there, and she really
felt it emotionally.
>>DALE: Yeah, yeah.
And I love working with
clients and students
when I know that I've
made a difference,
or I should really say that
I've been able to difference.
Because I'm not
really the healer.
It's coming from inside of
them or what the need comes
to them, to be really honest.
>>LISA : I like that.
>>DALE: You know,
there's a shift.
You can feel something
physically or emotionally.
That's when we know
that something's really
moving and going to make
a difference in our lives.
>>LISA : So you
empower the person to--
>>DALE: Absolutely.
>>LISA : --do their own healing.
>>LISA : You're a guide.
>>DALE: I'm a guide.
I'm the caring person.
You know, I think so often
what's stuck inside of us?
Whether it be an
emotional issue,
which they frequently of course
turn into physical issues.
That's a part of us that just
hasn't had any attention.
Maybe when we were growing up
we were ignored or we were hurt
or we were hit or whatever it
might be, or even as an adult.
When that happens, we need
to be cared about in order
to let the healing energy open
from inside or to come to us.
So part of my role is really
just to care about the person
and who they are and what
they've gone through.
>>LISA : Well, there's
so many things though,
you just mentioned, where
someone has gone through
a severe amount of
trauma and or abuse,
and it is stored in the cells.
>>DALE: It is
stored in the cells.
>>LISA : It takes a while
for that to start to release,
and it's got to be
around a caring person.
>>DALE: It absolutely does,
and it locks into the body.
Our body is designed
to go into shock when
we're going through a trauma.
And so it does.
The thalamus actually opens
up, puts the body into shock,
so we can cope.
So we can lift the
car, help the person,
or do something about the
event that put us into trauma.
But unless that's processed
through, that part of us
remains in shock.
And so literally there's
a chemical cascade
in the body, where the
receptors in the cells
sort of put the worst
of the biochemistry
in the middle of the cell.
They're called GABA receptors,
and we shut the trauma
in the cells.
And the trauma gets
stuck in what's
called the infralow brain wave.
It's under delta, it's
really, really slow,
and it stores our trauma.
It stores our traumatic stress.
So we have traumatic
stress syndrome.
And until we feel safe enough
or somebody cares enough or can
sense what's locked
in there, we're
not going to open up and allow
the chemistry in the body
to change.
So we can get out of shock-- we
can be in shock for 40 years.
>>LISA : Yes.
>>DALE: Around an event.
>>LISA : For sure.
>>DALE: And if somebody doesn't
come along or something--
I mean, because it can be a
spirit in a dream, or a friend,
or a dog--
>>LISA : Or a teacher.
>>DALE: --or a teacher.
But we'll remain there, and the
rest of our life keeps going.
But the part of us stuck in
shock stays stuck in shock.
>>LISA : So it's very
slow, it's very low.
>>DALE: It can be very slow.
It's locked, and dense.
It's in the
biochemistry, and it's
in the very slow cortical
movements in the body.
>>LISA : So this is how
it manifests into disease,
because it's undetectable
for the most part.
>>DALE: Right.
>>LISA : And this is this what
triggers this massive epidemic
of autoimmune disorders?
>>DALE: Oh, absolutely.
Yeah.
World Health Organization
says there's at least
88 autoimmune diseases.
I think everything's
an autoimmune disease
by the time you're done,
including mental illnesses.
You know, anorexia--
I mean, we're starting to see
that almost everything is about
stress slash inflammation.
And most of that
starts with trauma.
I describe trauma as
forces that hit our body--
our physical or subtle body--
from the outside to the in.
It can be verbal
abuse, emotional abuse,
physical abuse, we can be around
something really enormously
challenging.
We don't even have to be the
one who's being traumatized.
>>LISA : Like this
intuitive child.
>>DALE: It's energy.
>>LISA : You pick it at all up.
>>DALE: You pick it up.
It's all forces.
It's forces that enter the
body and they get stuck.
Wherever these forces that carry
negative charges or charges
that don't suit us get
stuck in the system,
we will eventually
have a problem.
We'll have a block.
We'll have a problem,
we'll have a disease.
>>LISA : What about women
and thyroid disease?
>>DALE: Oh, yeah.
>>LISA : And not having
a voice For so long.
>>DALE: It's all about voice.
Yep.
And if we just, for a minute,
segue to the subtle system,
the thyroid is in what we
call the fifth chakra, which
is communication.
Which is about receiving
guidance and saying
what it is we need.
Saying yes, saying no, and
being appropriately supported
to learn how to do that.
So if there's a lot of words
we never got to express
or emotions, that's energy.
That is actual
biochemical energy.
Feelings are energy.
Feelings could be related
to its biochemistry.
If we don't say them,
they get stuck right here.
>>LISA : Or in the
case of many women,
we were told not to speak.
>>DALE: That's right.
>>LISA : Your opinion
doesn't matter.
>>DALE: And it
gets stuck in here.
>>LISA : You can't vote.
>>DALE: Those opinions
are all in there,
and they get stuck
in the thyroid
or in that part of the body.
They can cause thyroid problems,
they can go hyperthyroid--
if you feel like you have to
constantly please other people
and just say what
they want you to say.
Hypothyroid tends
to be where you just
start to shut down to yourself.
So what's the point
of speaking, what's
the point of going there.
And some of those are actually
what I call psychic disorders.
Like if you have a lot of
guidance coming in, knowingly
or not knowingly,
so much, you're
picking up so much of
the invisible realm,
that you're overwhelmed--
hyperthyroidism,
or you shut down
because you don't want to let
all that in-- hypothyroidism.
So if you start to crack the
code of the subtle world,
you can really understand.
The subtle and the
physical realms
are one and the
same in the body.
Everything affects everything.
>>LISA : And understanding
is one thing,
but then actually healing
it, curing it in your body.
>>DALE: I know.
>>LISA : There's a huge backlash
now, of women's voices, which--
Me Too is all about this.
>>DALE: All about women's
speaking and being heard.
Or hopefully being heard.
>>LISA : Right.
>>DALE: I mean, there's a
questioning around that.
>>LISA : Yeah.
>>DALE: You know, too.
But it is.
Women are standing
up and being heard,
you know and I hope
that what's understood
is that in the healing
of the feminine,
we're healing not only
the feminine body, that's
going to embolden and help
our children be who they are,
but it's healing men, too.
It's healing the
feminine in men,
it's enabling them to be
able to say, wait a minute,
I have a voice.
I get to have my feelings.
>>LISA : Yes.
>>DALE: You know, an
interesting backlash
in my own home in
a positive way is
my 19 year old was
struggling over the summer
because a young girl
was interested in him,
and he just had to
shut down to her.
It was sort of scary, like who
she was and what she was about.
So he said mom, I'm blocking
her, but it's really scary.
She could just go make
things up about me.
She could just say things.
So it's sort of like we
have deeper questions that
are going to come up now.
They're going to be about
how do we respect each other?
How do we know how, no
matter what your gender is,
how to listen to the other
person and respect their yeses
and respect their nos, and say
your nos and say your yeses.
So it's very
transformative right now.
>>LISA : Yeah.
Social media can also
be very invasive.
>>DALE: Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
I have mixed feelings about it.
I think most of us do.
>>LISA : It connects
us, but there's many,
many ways that we abuse it.
>>DALE: Well,
especially the young.
The young are so vulnerable--
>>LISA : They don't
know enough yet
>>DALE: --to others'
opinions of them.
>>LISA : Yeah,
>>DALE: It's the
energy of it, too.
Like if one person posts
something negative,
how come we feel that
more than the positives?
There are science
studies that say
you have to have five positives
to cancel out a negative.
>>LISA : Yes!
>>DALE: Isn't that sad?
>>LISA : Yes, and I heard a
report the other day saying
that our younger generation's
biggest goal is to be famous.
>>DALE: I know, oh my gosh.
>>LISA : And their security--
their emotional security is
based on how many
likes they get.
>>DALE: It is, yeah.
>>LISA : So we're going to
have to help this generation.
>>DALE: We will!
We will.
>>LISA : Or they
can help themselves,
literally just by knowing that--
>>DALE: That's right.
>>LISA : --and that your
personal security is not based
on how many likes you have.
>>DALE: Exactly, right.
>>LISA : But they also don't
know themselves as well.
>>DALE: They don't.
>>LISA : Because there's
not a lot of emphasis
on the internal,
it's all external.
>>DALE: You know, in
different indigenous cultures
when a young person was 12,
13, 14, there was a ceremony.
>>LISA : Yes, a ritual,
a rite of passage.
>>DALE: A ritual--
yeah, a seeking
of how to figure out who you are
and bring it into the culture,
into the community.
And I don't know, I
think our junior highs
are sort of a mess.
I don't see a lot of guidance.
>>LISA : We've lost a lot of
ritual, a lot of ceremony.
Even in the Jewish
communities, they
had the bar mitzvahs
and bat mitzvahs,
which is a lot about
tradition and ritual.
>>DALE: Yes, it is.
>>LISA : They get so lost in
the expense, and the big party--
>>DALE: That's very true.
>>LISA : It gets crazy.
>>DALE: Yeah, it's true.
>>LISA : Yeah.
>>DALE: It's true.
>>LISA : So it's easy to get
sucked up into the marking it
all and the social
part of it all,
but there's got to be an
emphasis on listening to that
internal voice, which at some
point screams at you if you
deny it for too long.
>>DALE: That's right.
>>LISA : And it comes at you
in the form of a disease,
or an accident--
>>DALE: An addition, an
allergy, a car accident
that changes your life.
You know, et cetera.
Now a lot of the kids
I meet in my practice,
they have an inner voice
and they know who they are.
>>LISA : It's amazing
that kids come to you.
>>DALE: Oh, I love it.
I love working
with young people.
I just love it.
And because of what I do for
a living, intuition, energy
medicine, I'm going
to get the kids that
are a little bit
more aware of that
or want to talk about that.
>>LISA : Nice!
>>DALE: Yeah!
>>LISA : That you bring that
out, and give them space.
>>DALE: And one of the
things I love doing
is helping them figure
out their gifts.
What are you good at, what
is your learning style,
how can you study for tests?
How can you be really
good on the soccer field?
How do you not pick up
everybody else's anxieties?
When you're taking a
test, because you're
sensitive and just stay in
your bubble and your moment?
So those are really
important tools.
>>LISA : Do you give them tools?
>>DALE: Oh, absolutely.
That's the job, is tools.
Simple tools that their friends
don't have to know they're
using, so they don't
need to be embarrassed.
They're quiet, they're silent.
>>LISA : Just give
us a couple of them.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>LISA : Because adults
can use these, too.
>>DALE: Well, one
is the hara line.
H-A-R-A. That's a Daoistic
thought, an energy body.
It's a gold line that comes
from the heaven-- it's really
a beam of light that comes from
the heaven through the self
all the way to the earth.
It's like you're vertical
connection point.
And I teach, especially
young people,
not just to have the
team be like a pinprick,
like a thin line, but expand
it beyond them so they're
in this complete spotlight.
And what's outside of
it that doesn't suit
them doesn't get to come in.
And within this they get
to be all that they are.
They get to ask for guidance,
they get to take a test
and remember what
they've already learned.
For my son, you get to
go out on the baseball
field as a pitcher.
You know what I mean, and be
dialed in, but not notice,
you know--
you know, not care who's falling
apart or who's hitting the ball
and who's not.
So it gives you a
sense of connection,
but also individuality.
>>LISA : Now, for adults, where
many adults have financial
fears, financial issues.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>LISA : What's a good tool for
adults that are dealing with
that level of fear?
>>DALE: Right, right.
Right.
And I can see why we would.
Use the hara line,
get interconnected.
Anything that's
really substantial
when you're talking about
house, money, clothing, jobs,
you're talking
about the lower part
of the body and the energies
that the low part of the body
processes.
So low part of the body
is anything really real
and practical and everyday.
Middle part of the
body is psychological.
Top part of the
body is spiritual.
You've got to work with
the low part of the body.
Start to visualize
white light going
through the low
part of the body,
that you're working
through survival issues,
family fears,
ancestral issues, ask
for help from whatever you
call the greater spirit.
You want to clean the
lower part of your body.
You can ask that
spirit to help you.
I don't care what
words you use, just
say I don't want to
hold onto this anymore.
I want to be in the
flow of money, which is
in the flow of matter, right.
It's what matters
as a human being.
So just ask to be
cleansed, ask for what
you need to be brought to
you, and then walk around
with your heart open.
In a good way, right.
>>LISA : Like you said earlier,
make it super obvious what I
need.
>>DALE: Super obvious,
show me what I need to do,
give me money.
Give me signs.
I love really real things.
I always say to my
guidance, you know,
just give me signs that I'm
on the way that is happening.
I did that one time around
money, and within one day--
I was really-- a single
mom and just divorced.
You know, I found a
carpet sitting out
on somebody's lawn that was
exactly the color that I
needed for my new apartment.
Yeah!
I found a desk.
I found $20 just sitting there.
I mean, everything that
happened that day was practical.
Lower body asked to have
it manifested for you.
>>LISA : That asking
part is a huge piece.
>>DALE: Ask.
Ask and you shall receive.
And if you're not receiving,
ask to be cleaned,
and then you'll be receiving.
Asked to be cleansed.
>>LISA : Ask to
be cleansed first.
One of your favorite
techniques is
the spirit to spirit exercise.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>LISA : We're going to take a
look here at you doing a spirit
to spirit exercise
with someone else.
Take a look.
>>DALE: This is Wendy,
a good friend of mine,
a hospice worker, and an
energy worker herself.
And I'd like to
show you, via Wendy,
how I work with
somebody else using
the spirit to spirit technique.
So you're ready, Wendy?
>>WENDY: Yes.
>>DALE: All right.
I'm going to work
heart to heart,
and demonstrate
this, and then ask
you to share how you feel
when I do the different steps.
>>WENDY: OK.
>>DALE: The first step
is always to affirm
your own inner spirit.
And I usually do
this by breathing
in to the center of my heart.
Just taking a
moment and affirming
that I really am the divine
light that I've always been.
And this allows me the
protective qualities
that I need in order to
interact with somebody else,
and it separates me in a
good way, in a healthy way,
from that person.
So if I'm working with
them professionally,
I'm not going to reflect back to
them necessarily just what they
want to hear, but what
the higher spirit wants
me to be able to share.
The second step is to affirm
the spirit of the other person.
And I usually focus
on their heart.
I may actually, if
doing hands on healing,
ask if I can put my
hand on their heart.
Would that be OK with you?
>>WENDY: Yes, absolutely.
>>LISA : All right.
And then I ask you to just
affirm your own spirit,
and just breathe
into your heart.
Now, if I'm sitting
across from somebody,
or let's say I'm
teaching in a class
and I don't want to tell
people affirm your spirit,
I just simply affirm their
spirit inside of myself.
So no words ever
need to be said.
How do you feel, Wendy?
However as I'm doing this,
affirming the greater self
that you are.
>>WENDY: I feel returned to
who I am, it feels wonderful.
>>DALE: Oh, that's beautiful.
And actually, a
healing has already
been performed at this point.
Now if I want to
continue, if I want
to now provide information,
if I want to teach a class
and have the right
information flow through me,
if I want to open to healing
or healing information,
I now ask for the presence
of the greater spirit
to be made known profoundly
to me and to the other person.
And again, I don't
need to say anything.
I may do that if I
want, as I do now.
I now acknowledge the
presence of the greater
spirit and the Holy Spirits.
She's tearing up.
How do you feel?
>>WENDY: It feels precious.
>>DALE: Yeah.
Usually people feel this.
Again, you may just be
at the grocery store
and affirming that
the Holy Spirit is
present to you and all others.
It's at this point, if I'm
working professionally,
whether as I do as an
energy worker, an intuitive
consultant, or let's say you're
a chiropractor or a school
teacher, or you're
a mom or a dad
and now you need to get
a message across or bring
the message in, or
perform healing work,
you now just enable the greater
spirit to work through you.
And it's from that place you
share energy, information,
and hope.
>>LISA : OK.
So in that exercise you were
communicating with her spirit.
>>DALE: Yeah.
>>LISA : Can we do
that with everyone?
>>DALE: Yeah, we could
do that with everybody--
if they're permitting it.
>>LISA : Oh, great point.
>>DALE: The beauty
of spirit to spirit
is we don't override somebody
else's highest need or desire.
Make sense?
So say I'm working
with a client.
I affirm my spirit, their
spirit, helping spirits,
and the greater spirit.
What healing is going
to be delivered to them,
what I'm going to be shown
clairvoyantly or clairaudiently
or practically to
say to them, it's
certainly going to be
dictated by the greater spirit
but also by what
their spirit says
or communicates is
supposed to be done.
We need boundaries.
We don't have a right to
just barrel in on somebody,
or even, say, you
shall be healed of this
just because I as the loving
companion or friend or healer
want them to be healed.
If their spirit is
like no, I have more
to gain from this particular
experiment in disease,
we can't barrel through.
That's why I like
spirit to spirit.
It's not our agenda
that's going to count.
It may not even be the
agenda in their head
that's really going to count.
>>LISA : So you're
just saying hello.
Can we do this for a second?
>>DALE: Yes, I'd love to.
>>LISA : That would
be really great.
>>DALE: Yes.
So you're going to--
I'd love to have you had to
share what you feel as I go
through this exercise with you.
>>LISA : Yes.
>>DALE: All right, so
I'm just going to start
by affirming my spirit.
>>LISA : OK.
>>DALE: We always
start with ourselves.
You're the subject,
but I affirm my spirit.
And you can kind of
feel that, can't you?
That I just get really kind
of flowy and groundy and soft.
All right.
I affirm next your spirit.
>>LISA : That feels really good.
It's like saying hello to me.
>>DALE: It is.
Now we're connected.
It's one on one.
>>LISA : On a different level.
>>DALE: Exactly.
Isn't it kind?
>>LISA : We've been
here, and this is here.
>>DALE: Now we're here.
Now we're here.
Innate in that step, I affirm
the spirits who are present.
That could be people
who are around us,
or guides who are around.
I don't worry too
much about that,
but you can kind of get a sense
of an expansion between us
and around us.
All right, perfect.
All right.
And then I just affirm or
acknowledge the presence
of the greater spirit.
And I want you to
see how that feels.
>>LISA : Wow, that's
very different.
>>DALE: Yeah, how
does that seem to you?
>>LISA : It's the difference
between on a map looking
at a state versus
looking at the globe.
>>DALE: Exactly, it's big.
>>LISA : Yes.
>>DALE: Isn't that big?
>>DALE: And people
can get this confused
with a religious movement.
It's not.
There's a oneness.
There's a force that
is connecting us,
that actually is now--
if we were to do
like a full session
would tell me what
to say to you.
Might give me pictures about
you, might do the same for you.
Might even prompt you with
what questions to ask me.
So you know what, let's
just go one more step.
Let's ask that greater
spirit to give you a sense,
if there's anything you want
to ask for me to bring through.
A question, an insight,
doesn't matter what it is.
>>LISA : About digestive issues.
>>DALE: OK.
So I'm focusing on that.
Now I'm staying connected
to the greater spirit.
I'm not going to go to my
personality, your personality,
et cetera.
So immediately the
image that I'm getting--
it's clairvoyant--
like I see the yellow energy
of this part of your body,
and I'm seeing kind
of a mass in there.
I would not call
it a physical mass,
except that there is some
candida stuck in your system,
and I hear that.
I'm just hearing to say,
oh, you have some candida.
It's yeast, it's
no big deal, it's
where we actually store other
people's emotions, not our own.
That's what we put in yeast.
So you're kind of this
really nice caretaker,
but other people's emotions,
historically, you sort of care
took them.
So they started
going into your body.
>>LISA : Ah.
>>DALE: All right?
>>LISA : Yes.
>>DALE: So you don't
want to do that anymore.
>>LISA : No.
No it's a lot of work.
>>DALE: And we clear that
up out of the physical body
by helping to shift
that pattern for you.
>>LISA : OK.
>>DALE: Does that make sense?
>>LISA : Yes.
You go through the spiritual,
the emotional, the energetic.
>>DALE: I get it all
at once, exactly.
Now to do the change process,
I use another process
I call healing streams of grace.
It's just-- grace to
me is love in motion.
And grace is available to all
of us the source, all the time.
Now I'm not going to go mess
with your energy system.
I'm human, I don't
know what to do.
I don't want to screw up,
so I'm really now asking
that greater spirit
or the source
to send the forces or the
streams of grace to you
directly, that your spirit
wants to bring into your body
through your soul,
into your subtle body
to make these shifts for you.
>>LISA : Nice.
>>DALE: So it goes right to you.
It's not dependent on me.
>>LISA : I love that,
that you do that.
>>DALE: Isn't that great?
>>LISA : Yes.
>>DALE: Yeah.
So you're literally receiving
a healing right now.
>>LISA : I love that.
I love that, thank you so much.
And I love the way
that you do that.
You back out of the way--
>>DALE: That's right.
>>LISA : --and you allow
the guidance to come through
for the person's highest good.
>>DALE: That's right.
That's right.
>>LISA : That's wonderful.
I can actually feel
my stomach moving.
>>DALE: I was going to say,
you can feel it now, can't you?
>>LISA : And there's a
lot of heat in me-- yes!
>>DALE: Yep.
People go-- well, I work
on the phone with people,
and they go well does
this work on the phone?
It's like well, yes,
since I'm not doing it.
>>LISA : It's all energy
and it's timeless.
>>DALE: Yeah.
And it's the gift
to you, and those
streams stay connected
to you long after we're
done with our interaction.
>>LISA : Nice.
>>DALE: They may tell you
drink some marshmallow tea--
by the way, that's what
I'm hearing for you to do.
>>LISA : I've never
even heard of it.
>>DALE: Well, it's not like
the little white marshmallows.
>>LISA : No.
Marshmallow root.
>>DALE: I know there's a Native
American marshmallow tea.
You may want to go
research what it does.
>>LISA : Sure.
>>DALE: So sometimes I
just get practical things,
but you may get them, too.
>>LISA : That sounds
delicious, though.
>>DALE: I mean, it
does really good.
I really like
smores, though, so I
wish they would tell me
to just go eat smores.
Chocolate and marshmallows
and graham cracker, but--
no.
I heard marshmallow tea.
>>LISA : OK.
>>DALE: But see, even you
thinking it sounds good is
probably your body--
>>LISA : Completely.
>>DALE: --saying hey, that might
help with the biochemistry.
>>LISA : That is-- that's
exactly what I felt.
>>DALE: Right.
>>LISA : Like, wow,
that sounds really good.
>>DALE: I would go look it up.
I'm not a naturopath.
I'd go look up what it does.
>>LISA : I totally will.
>>DALE: Good, excellent.
>>LISA : You're amazing,
thank you so much.
I mean--
>>DALE: I had fun.
>>LISA : You do!
>>DALE: I just have fun.
>>LISA : You know,
I ask my guests,
what is your biggest why, your
biggest reason you do what you
do?
>>DALE: Oh, it's just joy.
I'm a geek.
I'm a geek at heart.
I love studying, researching,
getting to know people.
You know what I mean?
As soon as it's
like something new--
it doesn't need it to be new.
As soon as I learn a
little bit about something
I want to know more.
I just think it's about joy.
>>LISA : Yeah.
>>DALE: I do it
because it's happy.
>>LISA : Well, I appreciate
the fact that you have such
a grounded, practical
approach to healing.
You can teach us how
to do it, and also
show us that it's possible
for us to do it as well.
Thank you.
>>DALE: Thank you.
>>LISA : Great gift,
thank you very much.
>>DALE: Thank you.
>>LISA : And thank you
so much for watching.
If you'd like to watch more
inspirational programming,
you just go to
"Inspirations" on Gaia.
I'm Lisa Garr, and as always
I invite you to stay aware.